data type:  a particular kind of data item, as defined by the values it can take, the programming language used, or the operations that can be performed on it.


BioCompute data types are defined as aggregates of the critical fields organized into a few domains: 
1)the descriptive domain: Structured field for description of external references, the pipeline steps, and the relationship of I/O objects.
	keywords
	xref
	pipeline_steps
		step_number
		name
		description
		version
		prerequisite
		input list
		output list
2)the identification and provenance domain, 
	name
	structuredname: optional templated computable text field designed to represent a BCO instance name in visible interfaces
	version
	review: review status
	inheritence/derivation: parent object specififed
	obsocescence: expiration 
	embargo: start/end times
	created:
	modified
	Contributors
	license
	
3)the input and output domains
	input_subdomain
	output_subdomain
	
4)the parametric domain 

5)the environmental domain, 

6)the execution domain
	Script_access_tupe
	script
	pipeline version
	platform
	script-driver
	software_prereqs
	domain_prereqs
	env_parameters
	
7) the prerequisite domain,
 
8)the usability domain: This field is to aid in search-ability and provide a specific description of the object.
	The usability domain along with keywords can help determine when and how the BCO can be used.
	and the error domain. 


At the time of submission to the BioCompute Object database an instance of BCO type is created, populated with actual values compliant with the data type definitions and assigned a unique identifier. The object could then be assigned a unique digital signature and a unique digital object identifier.
 
 
 
 extension domain: for a user to add more structured information that is defined in the type definition. This section is not evaluated by checks for BCO validity or computational correctness. Two examples follow:
 	Extension to external references
	
	
	

8 main domains:
	1) Provenance-yes 2
	2) Usability-yes-8
	3) Extension
	4) Desicription- yes 1
	5) Execution-yes 6
	6) Parametric-yes 4
	7) IO_domain-yes 3
	8) Error domain
	
	NO ENVIRONMENTAL DOMAIN
	HAS A PREREQUISITE DOMAIN ?? In the spec doc, "domain_prerequisites" is under execution domain. 